# JAVA-TUTORIAL
Java is one of the most well-known programming language in the world, not only people belonging to the IT sectors know about it but it has now kind of become a household name.
Even parents of the new generation want their kids to learn this language due to the opportunities it gives a person in the IT sectors which is seeing its growth from the last few years.
## The START
Often it is told that the start or the first step towards anything is very important, but this can be mentally tiring too so the KEY to master this language would be CONSISTENCY. 
A new language means new concepts new logics, all you need is never giving up attitude. To rate Java on the difficulty meter it would be moderate as once you understand the basics the concepts become clearer and you can even derive your own logics. To understand basics here's a link which will help you in your journey https://www.tutorialcup.com/java
## Learn the BASICS
When we are young we don’t start running from the very beginning, they always say take baby steps. Learning in an efficient way and taking it steadily helps us to master a language and derive our own understanding and this is possible if we know it from its very roots. And the roots to learn Java is coding, Java is all about codes and logics being an object oriented language it provides us code reusability, which is one of the best advantages of this languages. Just calling of objects wherever they are needed helps the programmers by decreasing the length of the code and this advantage can be only used by the people who know the basics and have enough knowledge of coding.
## Know your language
Knowing the language is very important why was it developed why there are various versions of it and why is the existence of this language so important even now, these are the questions which make us curious. And being curious is the way to discoveries. This is yet a developing languages and the several versions through the years is the proof.
## The next step 
You won’t learn how to swim until and unless you jump in the pool. And in this world of programming the pool will be CODING, coding can be tedious and nerve wreaking. It’s not easy to sit at a place for hours and write codes, but what makes it amazing is that when you succeed in it the joy is unforgettable and it will encourage you to just dive in the pool without even knowing the depth of it and you may even end up finding treasure in those depths. It’s a bit philosophical but worth every word or code written. And the key would be practising to code and learning the logics developed to further apply them in creating new ones.
## The PLAN
When we start coding we need to determine the reason why we are coding, what is the outcome we are expecting from the program and why are we even writing a code? To get a plan working people often use resources like technology which helps them to find a void which can be filled by writing a program for it, we also tend to use the most basic method which is jotting down the points on a paper or creating a document and after we finish jotting it down we arrange them in an order to provide it a flow. When studying computers and the languages the students are taught to write algorithms to get hold of the flow of the program which help to avoid errors. And after done with THE PLAN we need to execute it accordingly.
## JOURNEY
The journey can be easy for some but it may not be the case for everyone. As humans we tend to forget something or the other but that doesn’t mean that we are not capable, to get over this we can return to the concepts we missed or forgot. It’s said that it’s never too late to learn. 
To get hold of the missed and forgotten concepts visit [Java Tutorial]( https://www.tutorialcup.com/java)

